Release 1.14.0 (#1275)
heremaps/here-data-sdk-cpp: CHANGELOG.md

## v1.14.0 (15/11/2021)

**Common**
* **Work In Progress** Added LMDB library as a dependency. The library is currently not used and turned off by default in CMake.
* Added proper handling of the `SSLException` error in the Android `olp::http::Network` implementation. Now it is mapped to `olp::http::ErrorCode::IO_ERROR` and subsequently handled as a retryable error.
* Added proper handling of the `NSURLErrorCannotConnectToHost` error in the iOS `olp::http::Network` implementation. Now it is mapped to `olp::http::ErrorCode::IO_ERROR` and subsequently handled as a retryable error.
* Added the `olp::cache::KeyGenerator` class. This class will empower users to access, insert, or remove cache entries without going through Data SDK client.

> *  Removed the retry code from the Android `olp::http::Network` implementation. The `olp::client::OlpClient` class handles the retries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Removed the retry code from the Android `olp::http::Network` implementation. The `olp::client::OlpClient` class handles the retries.
```

* Added `olp::core::RetrySettings` to the `olp::authentication::AuthenticationSettings`. Now, the user can configure the `olp::authentication::AuthenticationClient` to use the provided retry settings for all online requests.
* Added a new operator to the `olp::authentication::TokenProvider` that accepts the `olp::client::CancelationContext` as input and returns `olp::authentication::TokenResponse`. Now the authentication requests can be cancelled, and the clients are able to forward the proper error messages during authentication to the caller.
* Added a new `token_provider` parameter to `olp::client::AuthenticationSettings`. The new token provider accepts `olp::client::CancelationContext` and returns the `olp::client::OauthTokenResponse` response. Now, the `olp::client::OlpClient::CallApi` calls can be cancelled during authentication.
* Deprecated `olp::authentication::TokenProvider::operator()()` method together with the `olp::authentication::AuthenticationSettings::provider` member. Both will be removed by 10.2022.
* Deprecated the `olp::authentication::TokenResult::GetHttpStatus` and `olp::authentication::TokenResult::GetErrorResponse` API. It will be removed by 10.2022.

> * Fixed the cancelation error code that occurred after a timeout, that occurs for `olp::authentication::AuthenticationClient` APIs. Now the correct error is returned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixed the falsly returned cancellation error code in case the request timed out. This happened on all `olp::authentication::AuthenticationClient` APIs. Now the correct error will be returned.
```

## v1.14.0 (15/11/2021)

**Common**

> * **Work In Progress** Added LMDB library as a dependency. Currently not used, turned off.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Work In Progress** Added LMDB library as a dependency. The library is currently not used and turned off by default in cmake.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Work In Progress** Added the LMDB library as a dependency. The library is currently not used and turned off by default in CMake.
```

* Added handling of the `SSLException` error on Android as `IO_ERROR`.

> * Added handling of the `NSURLErrorCannotConnectToHost` error on iOS as `IO_ERROR`.

Reviewer: Rather:
"Added proper handling of the ... error in the [Android / iOS] `olp::http::Network` implementation. Now it is mapped to `olp::http::ErrorCode::IO_ERROR` and subsequently handled as a retryable err´´or."

> * Added a new class `olp::cache::KeyGenerator`. It is used by the `olp-cpp-sdk-dataservice-read` module to generate cache keys for storing the data.

Reviewer: This class will empower external users to access, insert, or remove cache entries without going through any Data SDK client.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Added the `olp::cache::KeyGenerator` class. It is used by the `olp-cpp-sdk-dataservice-read` module to generate cache keys for storing data.
```

> * Removed the retry code from the Android network implementation. The retry logic is implemented in the `olp::client::OlpClient` class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Removed the retry code from the Android `olp::http::Network` implementation. The `olp::client::OlpClient` class handles the retries.
```

> * Fix various doxygen warnings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixed various doxygen warnings.
```

**olp-cpp-sdk-authentication**

> * Added the retry settings to the `olp::authentication::AuthenticationSettings`. Now the user can configure the `olp::authentication::AuthenticationClient` to use the provided retry settings for the online requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added `olp::core::RetrySettings` to the `olp::authentication::AuthenticationSettings`. Now, the user can configure the `olp::authentication::AuthenticationClient` to use the provided retry settings for all online requests.
```

> * Added a new operator to the `olp::authentication::TokenProvider` that accepts the `olp::client::CancelationContext` as argument and returns `olp::authentication::TokenResponse`. Now the authentication requests could be canceled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added a new operator to the `olp::authentication::TokenProvider` that accepts the `olp::client::CancelationContext` as input and returns `olp::authentication::TokenResponse`. Now the authentication requests can be cancelled, and the clients are able to forward the proper error messages during authentication to the caller.
```

> * Deprecated the `olp::authentication::TokenProvider::operator()()` function. It will be removed by 10.2022.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Deprecated the `olp::authentication::TokenProvider::operator()()` method. It will be removed by 10.2022.
```

> * Added a new `token_provider` to the `olp::client::OlpClientSettings`. New token provider accepts `olp::client::CancelationContext` and returns the `olp::client::OauthTokenResponse` response. Now the `CallApi` calls could be canceled during authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added a new `token_provider` to the `olp::client::AuthenticationSettings`. New token provider accepts `olp::client::CancelationContext` and returns the `olp::client::OauthTokenResponse` response. Now, the `olp::client::OlpClient::CallApi` calls can be cancelled during authentication.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Added a new `token_provider` parameter to `olp::client::OlpClientSettings`. The new token provider accepts `olp::client::CancelationContext` and returns the `olp::client::OauthTokenResponse` response. Now, the `olp::client::OlpClient::CallApi` calls can be cancelled during authentication.
```

> * Deprecated the `olp::authentication::AuthenticationSettings::provider` member. It will be removed by 10.2022.

Reviewer: Merge with the above deprecation message, like:
"Deprecated `olp::authentication::TokenProvider::operator()()` method together with the `olp::authentication::AuthenticationSettings::provider` member. Both will be removed by 10.2022."

> * Deprecated the `olp::authentication::TokenResult::GetHttpStatus` and `olp::authentication::TokenResult::GetErrorResponse` API. It will be removed by 10.2022.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Deprecated the `olp::authentication::TokenResult::GetHttpStatus` and `olp::authentication::TokenResult::GetErrorResponse` methods. Both will be removed by 10.2022.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deprecated the `olp::authentication::TokenResult::GetHttpStatus` and `olp::authentication::TokenResult::GetErrorResponse` APIs. Both will be removed by 10.2022.
```

> * Fix the cancelation error code occured when the timeout happens

Reviewer: I know what this is, but I do not understand the sentence, and if I don't know what this is then you can imagine what the users think of it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fixed the cancelation error code that occurred after a timeout.
```

## v1.14.0 (15/11/2021)

**Common**
* **Work In Progress** Added the LMDB library as a dependency. The library is currently not used and turned off by default in CMake.
* Added proper handling of the `SSLException` error to the Android implementation of `olp::http::Network`. Now, the error is mapped to `olp::http::ErrorCode::IO_ERROR` and subsequently handled as a retriable error.
* Added proper handling of the `NSURLErrorCannotConnectToHost` error to the iOS implementation of `olp::http::Network`. Now, the error is mapped to `olp::http::ErrorCode::IO_ERROR` and subsequently handled as a retryable error.
* Added the `olp::cache::KeyGenerator` class. Use this class to access, insert, or remove cache entries without using the Data SDK client.
* Removed the retry code from the Android implementation of `olp::http::Network`. The `olp::client::OlpClient` class handles all retries.

> * Change the logging from `stdout` to `stderr` for POSIX environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Changed logging from `stdout` to `stderr` for the POSIX environment.
```

> * Move the commonly used internal method `ExecuteOrSchedule` to `TaskScheduler.h`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Moved the commonly used internal `ExecuteOrSchedule` method to `TaskScheduler.h`.
```

> * **Work-in-progress**: Added `olp::thread::ExecutionContext`, `olp::thread::Continuation` and `olp::thread::TaskContinuation` classes. They are designed to support the task continuation feature, which will enable the SDK API's to use the task scheduler more efficiently, avoid blocking the executor by pending network requests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Work-in-progress**: Added the `olp::thread::ExecutionContext`, `olp::thread::Continuation`, and `olp::thread::TaskContinuation` classes. They are designed to support the task continuation feature, which enables the SDK APIs to use the task scheduler more efficiently and avoid blocking the executor by pending network requests.
```

* Extend the `olp::utils::Base64Encode` API to suport the encoding of URLs.
* Fixed various compiler warnings.
* Added a new CMake option: `OLP_SDK_USE_LIBCRYPTO`. The flag disables the `libcrypto` dependency.

**olp-cpp-sdk-authentication**
* Added `olp::core::RetrySettings` to `olp::authentication::AuthenticationSettings`. Now, you can configure `olp::authentication::AuthenticationClient` to use the provided retry settings for all online requests.

> * Added a new operator to `olp::authentication::TokenProvider` that accepts `olp::client::CancelationContext` as input and returns `olp::authentication::TokenResponse`. Now, authentication requests can be cancelled, and clients can forward the proper error messages during authentication to the caller.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Added a new operator to `olp::authentication::TokenProvider`. It accepts `olp::client::CancelationContext` as input and returns `olp::authentication::TokenResponse`. Now, authentication requests can be cancelled, and clients can forward proper error messages during authentication to the caller.
```

* Added a new `token_provider` parameter to `olp::client::AuthenticationSettings`. The new token provider accepts `olp::client::CancelationContext` and returns the `olp::client::OauthTokenResponse` response. Now, the `olp::client::OlpClient::CallApi` calls can be cancelled during authentication.
* Deprecated the `olp::authentication::TokenProvider::operator()()` method together with the `olp::authentication::AuthenticationSettings::provider` member. They will be removed by 10.2022.
* Deprecated the `olp::authentication::TokenResult::GetHttpStatus` and `olp::authentication::TokenResult::GetErrorResponse` methods. They will be removed by 10.2022.
* Fixed the falsely returned cancellation error code that occurred when a request timed out. It happened on all `olp::authentication::AuthenticationClient` APIs. Now, the correct error is returned.

> * Move the deprecated `olp::authentication::AutoRefreshingToken`, `olp::authentication::TokenEndpoint`, `olp::authentication::TokenRequest` classes from public includes to sourse, they are no longer available.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Moved the deprecated `olp::authentication::AutoRefreshingToken`, `olp::authentication::TokenEndpoint`, and `olp::authentication::TokenRequest` classes from the public includes to the source. They are no longer available.
```

> * Added `endpoint_url` variable and a new constructor to `olp::authentication::AuthenticationCredentials`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Added the `endpoint_url` variable and a new constructor to `olp::authentication::AuthenticationCredentials`.
```

* Switched the `SignUpHereUser` and `SignOut` APIs in the `olp::authentication::AuthenticationClient` functionality to `TaskContext`.

**olp-cpp-sdk-dataservice-read**

> * Changed the `olp::dataservice-read::CatalogClient::GetLatestVersion` API. Now, if the user uses the `CacheOnly` fetch option, the latest version is resolved using the cached version and the provided start version, the resolved version is stored in cache. For fetch option `OnlineIfNotFound` the online version is always requested and updated in cache if needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Changed the `olp::dataservice-read::CatalogClient::GetLatestVersion` API. Now, if you use the `CacheOnly` fetch option and specify the cached and start versions, the latest version is resolved. The resolved version is stored in the cache. For the `OnlineIfNotFound` fetch option, the online version is always requested and updated in the cache if needed.
```

> * Changed the default `olp::dataservice::read::CatalogVersionRequest::start_version_` from `0` to `-1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Changed the default `olp::dataservice::read::CatalogVersionRequest::start_version_` from `0` to `-1` as 0 is a valid catalog version while -1 is not.
```

> * Added new API `olp::dataservice::read::CatalogClient::GetCompatibleVersions` which allows you to query the availalbe catalog versions which are compatible to the dependencies provided with `olp::dataservice::read::CompatibleVersionsRequest`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Added the `olp::dataservice::read::CatalogClient::GetCompatibleVersions` API. Use it to query the availalbe catalog versions that are compatible with the dependencies provided by `olp::dataservice::read::CompatibleVersionsRequest`.
```

* Fixed various compiler warnings.

**olp-cpp-sdk-dataservice-write**
* Fixed various compiler warnings.

> * Various doxygen changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Improved Doxygen documentation in various places.
```
